“My life changed in ways I would never imagine,” Dan Smee said as he recounted his experiences as a combat medic in Iraq.
“On a daily basis, if you didn’t see something traumatic, it was in your mind anyway – maybe something from the day before – so it’s always on your mind,” the Army veteran said.
Dan first served in the 1980s. He then rejoined after 9/11 to serve his nation.
“I came back; I was really proud of my service, but things started to unravel for me. I just started to isolate and self-medicate.”
Dan finally started to feel the effects of what he experienced while deployed in a war zone – something he didn’t have time to face in Iraq.
“You didn’t really process the trauma at that point – you just had it and compartmentalized it and kept driving on.
“I wasn’t really dealing with a lot of the stuff I had etched on my memory and scarred in my soul a little bit. Luckily, Wounded Warrior Project was one of the things that helped me get back on track.”
Dan crossed paths with Wounded Warrior Project® (WWP) several times over the years before connecting with the veterans charity.
“Some of the guys I served with would get injured and go to Landstuhl, and they would come back with backpacks, and they were saying ‘how great.’”
WWP meets warriors in their hospital beds at Landstuhl Medical Center in Germany, providing backpacks filled with shorts, shirts, socks, and other items needed when a veteran is rushed from Afghanistan or Iraq for medical care. WWP started by delivering backpacks filled with care items to wounded veterans. WWP connects warriors, families, and caregivers with healing programs and services. For 15 years, its focus has been building long-term veteran support structures that empower warriors on their paths to recovery.
While Dan learned who delivered these backpacks, he didn’t seek help after returning home.
“I started hearing commercials about Wounded Warrior Project and the things they were doing.”
A commercial involving a man very dear to Dan Smee finally convinced him to get connected.
In November 2004, an improvised explosive device detonated beneath a Humvee in Balad, Iraq. One soldier died in the explosion. A staff sergeant was gravely injured, but Dan Smee helped save his life. Dan Nevins suffered a traumatic brain injury and had one of his legs amputated below the knee. His other leg had to be amputated after dozens of surgeries attempting to save it.
While Dan Nevins survived because of the great work of his combat medic, Dan Smee still struggled with the trauma from that day. Hearing Dan Nevins in a commercial, years after the explosion, helped spur recovery.
“I thought, ‘if he’s involved with Wounded Warrior Project, that’s where I’m going. I’m onboard.’”
Dan registered and immediately started connecting with other wounded veterans. In late May, Dan had the chance to reconnect again with his Army buddy, Staff Sgt. Dan Nevins. The two shared a stage at WWP’s Courage Awards & Benefit Dinner®. The annual event honors warriors and recognizes those who make WWP’s mission possible and inspire others to do more for our nation’s wounded warriors. The crowd got to hear their story and see Dan Nevins thank the combat medic who was there for him in Balad.
“What a transformative event the Courage Awards can be. This event changed the course of my life. It was here where I reconnected with my friend Dan Nevins. After that night, I started to see my life take a different shape. I took on a new mission and life of service to my fellow warriors, and I haven’t looked back since.”
Through his efforts, Dan Smee has felt a change.
“A big part for me is the engagement portion of Wounded Warrior Project because that is what helped me in my recovery.”
Dan meets and gets to know other veterans through gatherings that include bowling, a reading group, dinners, and sports outings. The atmosphere at these events helps warriors avoid isolation while interacting with other veterans and families.
